in the occupied West Bank Israeli forces
are increasing the number of raids
arresting dozens of Palestinians around
400 Palestinians have been detained and
at least 55 killed there since last
Saturday let's go to Imran Khan who's in
rala in the occupied West Bank Imran
this was already the deadliest year in a
long time for Palestinians but 55 killed
55 Palestinians killed since Saturday
that's a very sharp escalation tell us
about the latest raids
well the r the latest raids took place
uh in the last 24 hours 66 people have
been arrested today they've been
arrested by the Israeli military
remember that the occupied West Bank
comes under Israeli military rule not
Israeli civilian Rule and only in the
Palestinian areas as the Palestinian
Authority RIT actually make any uh have
any effect so these people have now been
taken into Israeli military uh detention
470 since Saturday since October 7th uh
when hamas's military operation began
this is a worrying number uh for the
Palestinians now sirel it was only a few
days ago that here in Manara Square in
the center of rala that Hamas actually
called a public rally they were allowed
to do that by the Palestinian Authority
there were senior leaders of Hamas
leading the prayers um uh for the
victims in Gaza uh they were doing this
publicly and now uh the Israelis are
going in and arresting um members of
Hamas now that's only adding to the
sense of nervousness here in the
occupied West Bank remember s the
occupied West Bank is still uh under
blockade is blockaded uh
from the Candia checkpoint from other
checkpoints that actually lead into uh
occupied East Jerusalem into Jerusalem
generally but you can't move around
within the occupied West Bank and so
people are simply staying at home
they're watching the tele ision and
they're just incredibly nervous and they
keep telling us look if that's happening
in Gaza we're worried that we might be
next Imran you're also getting new
information on the humanitarian
situation in Gaza what can you share
with
us well I can tell you the Musa baruti a
very senior Palestinian figure the head
of the Palestinian national initiative
gave a press conference today he gave
some very Stark numbers about uh what
was going on within the Gaza Strip and
he also talked about uh it infolding
into a humanitarian crisis it's worth
taking a listen to
him what we see in Gaza is unlawful
killing of innocent civilians
slaughtering children 800 Palestinian
children have already been slaughtered
by Israeli air strikes what we see is
acts of collective punishment and
bombardment up till now the Israeli Army
and air strikes have conducted 57
massacres and I mean by a massacre the
elimination of whole families completely
and killing them totally we already
received report that 47 families and I
mean by families grandfather grandmother
brothers sisters children they 47
families have already been erased from
the Civil
record it's very Stark numbers there St
seral that he was talking about but
what's perhaps slightly more interesting
for the International Community is that
press conference was actually held in
English and that's something you're
going to start seeing a lot more of the
Palestinians have realized that they
need to get their side of the story out
to the International Community and they
need to do that in Lang in languages
other than Arabic they're not playing uh
to their own domestic audience anymore
it's important they say to get those
messages out in as many languages as
possible and this has been echoed in uh
by Palestinian demonstrators as well at
the German Embassy uh there was a
demonstration yesterday we speaking to
people there and they were saying we
simply need to start telling the world
our story our plight why this happened
this didn't happen in a volume in a
vacuum rather and it happened because of
75 years worth of occupation so expect
to see more things like that in English
as they try and get the message out
Imran Khan reporting from romala in the
occupied West Bank thank you very much
ever Imran